One of the key reasons of rewriting main pieces of the API is that
we could now move some of that functionality out of the @Test
annotation and down into the Assertions API.
And the reason for doing this is that we can now use the
power of lambdas inside of our code.
As we started covering with exceptions,
assertions now can heavily take advantage of the use of lambdas in them.
Let's look at both a simple example, such as we have on this slide here,
and a more complex example where we aggregate multiple
assertions together inside of one statement.
I've gone ahead and created two tests here to show you
some of the changes with assertions.
The first one's a very basic test where we have an assertTrue,
and you can see we have a value that says 4 == 2 + 2.
And obviously that is a true statement, and it's going to assert to true.
It's going to evaluate to a true value,
but you'll notice that we have the use of lambdas here where we
can say that we want to dump this expression,
Numbers 4 and 2 + 2 are equal, back out.
We can also do some more complex things here,
but you can see how easy it is to start using lambdas in this expression.
The test below that is where we say we should assert all of
these equal to true or to evaluate true.
And you can see, we've passed in a couple of simple integers into an Arrays.
asList method that will give us back a list of type Integer,
and we can do multiple assertions on all these.
So on line 21 we're saying let's assert that all of these
assertions are going to evaluate to true,
and this is where the power of those assertions and
lambdas really start to come together.
You can see that on lines 22, 23, 24, 25,
and down to 28,
we have multiple assertions testing various things inside of this list.
The first three statements are looking to see that those values are,
in fact, correct, and the fourth one is expecting an exception to get thrown.
So we could've tested whether or not an index out of bounds exception is
going to get thrown or some illegal modifier or any number of things that
we want to based off of that collection.
And you really start to get a feel of some of the more
complex things we can do with assertions here.
Let's run this so you can get an idea of what this code with
execute and look like as a successful test.
I'm just going to right-click inside the body of this and say Run As,
JUnit Test, and that should run both of my tests for me.
You'll see we have the shouldAssertAll and the numbersShouldEqual test as well,
and those both assert to true, and we've got our green successful test out of it.
Also, notice how fast these tests are executing.
I'm not doing a lot of things in here,
but there's a big performance improvement in JUnit 5 as well.
Let's look at a new API that was added and enhanced as JUnit 5 came out dealing with assumptions instead of just assertions.